In this video we'll make sure you understand the custom post type that newcomer's uses as well as the
chapters.
The newcomers products custom post type allows for the organization of data separate from the Wordpress
By the end of this video you'll understand how to work with the newcomers custom post type and why it
This will enable you to customize the plug in if you need to for any WordPress e-commerce project.
In the last video we took a quick look at the products page and we looked at a single product.
post or page every page on the web site gives you an opportunity to control how it functions with the
For now just to get that out of our way you can close the little tab by pushing that up a little bit
So if you look at the different parts under one of the products.
taxonomy in that you can have something like Hoodie's which is under clothing you've got a parent and
And so there's categories and then there's product tags as well which is a non hierarchical taxonomy.
You got an image and then it does offer a gallery so you can put a product gallery of a multiple set
And so each of the products in the custom post type can have its own set of images defined and then
And so what else did we have right down here.
We have a product short description.
But if you remember when we went over this section before we've got the product which is the custom
And then if we look at attributes attributes just like categories it's a hierarchical taxonomy and it
So Ill be able to list what color you can define what type or what attribute the product you're buying
should have.
And so it's got an attribute settings page you can create a new one you know.
And in another way you can see that when you click on one of them it actually gives you an opportunity
us an opportunity to choose a parent taxonomy for it.
So parents and child.
And as you can see there are some sections that have custom fields.
There it is now at the bottom here the custom field section is called product data and it has a number
If we click attributes we can actually select a custom product attribute and add it right here or we
So if this attribute if this product could have more than one attribute might have some different colors.
You can then add that to that product itself.
And there's a few more that will go over later in this video.
There's also a product a short description I made a quick change and I labeled the short description
under this product that we're looking at right here.
The short description under the Wu album number two.
And so I'm actually looking at the flying Ninja.
Oops.
That's the home page that I have to find here.
And I might have to go to the next page.
The shop pages have a pagination.
Or you can click the whole listing really to look at the product page itself.
And I can see that I have put a short description down here under that product I put the word short
So the short description is the one right next to the item right here.
And as you scroll down you can see that the full product description is right here so you can leave
And you can have the short description kind of even with the small image right up here.
Another couple of things as you scroll down a little bit next to this product description.
e-commerce plugin is the ability for it to use a revues system that's separate from the Wordpress commenting
to give it a star rating and to write a review right here and then to submit that review and those reviews
can come up and be published on the site itself.
So somebody browsing the product can look at the description and then can get some social proof or some
Let's go back to the shop page and let's take a look at this flying ninja poster.
And just as I noticed down here at the bottom when you go down and look below the actual image there's
So if you click the image will give it a lightbox display word enlarges the image and then it shows
that's associated with this product.
And that's an example that we were looking at before of having a gallery product gallery down underneath
So let's just take a look at that.
We look at the products page again and let's scroll down and look at this flying ninja product which
Scroll down a little bit.
Right we've got an initial product image right here.
And then there's another image down under the gallery so you can add product gallery images and that'll
enable your product page to show multiple images of the same product.
Let's take a look at the rest of our custom fields.
Inside one of the product pages and just identify what they are.
So in the general tab here this is under product data.
We're either offering a simple product a grouped product an external or affiliate product meaning that
to be getting an affiliate commission on that product.
And then a variable product is something different that we can look up its more advanced insight of
Commerce.
Here's an example of using the excellent commerce documentation and just this documentation page and
I've got a page called variable product and it's a product type in which commerce it lets you offer
And inside the documentation they have a nice intro three minute and 52 second video which would be
another type of product.
Let's keep this a simple product.
And there's also the virtual and the downloadable checkboxes here and we'll be using these specifically
And there's a description under these when you roll your mouse over it.
commerce plugin will take care of downloads and private access to the files that you want to give people
once they're purchased.
And so you can also see that there's a regular price and a sale price.
And if there's a sale price you can actually set a schedule.
scheduled sale and then it will come off of the sale automatically when the date comes up.
Under inventory you can use your Wordpress e-commerce store to manage how much inventory is left.
For instance if someone buys the last product in your inventory list it will disable sales for that
Shipping is obvious it gives you the shipping information for each of your products if you have size
Calculate your shipping costs and charge the customer linked.
Products are about having like a grouped product here under the product type.
And so if you link certain products.
If somebody buys this product and you want to offer them the next higher cost type of product that's
like that you can choose to do and up upscale across sell is a product that's similar but maybe in a
products that you might want to sell together attributes.
We talked about like as in the color of a shirt or a sweatshirt something like that.
And then under advanced There's a few more you have a purchased note for this particular product a menu
number and then you can either enable or disable the reviews tab that we went over on the products page
a little bit earlier.
Now I'm sure you can see that if I had given you the challenge to create an e-commerce store with one
required and the custom fields for all of these items and then figure out how to display all of that
in a nice looking way on your theme.
Well that would have been a big undertaking.
The Commerce e-commerce plug in gives us all this stuff pre-built and it even works in almost any theme.
So the last thing we'll do in this video is just make a couple of fundamental changes just to start
trimming up our store a little bit.
And the first one is let's change the name of our store if you haven't done that already.
And the tag.
And so if you can remember where to change the name and the tagline.
Pause the video now and go ahead and do that.
I'll just go back to the dashboard and I might as well go into the appearance customize her so that
So site identity is where we have a logo as well as the site title and the tag line.
products for you with an exclamation point and I'll publish that change.
First customize this menu and make sure that it shows whatever you think the menu items should be up
For instance we use that thank you for confirming page for our MailChimp configuration.
And of course if we do have a MailChimp sign up as a part of our website or we don't want to just publish
We'd want to hide that from the menu.
site is actually the shop has a video now and give it a go that went well for you I'll show you how
those two changes.
First I'll go into menus and menu locations and it looks like this is just a default menu showing every
Let's see.
Let's add a menu and I'm just going to call it the Hederman and you as I usually do and click create
in this storefront theme.
But I can test that.
then I'm going to add items to this menu.
For instance let's see if I go down here and look at pages I do want to put the home page and here it
Changing it as I watch.
And I do and I have a button for my account and I would like to have a cart.
A shopping cart ready for users to use.
I think home is actually going to be the shop so I might just leave that blank or leave it off and maybe
So I'll leave it to those four and I'll click save and publish.
And now the second thing I want to do is change the home page itself.
So if I go back over to here I can see it's a static front page and I don't want it to be the latest
I want it to be a static page and I'm a choose that shop page as my front page.
Now just click save and publish.
And I think I'm all set.
So if I go back to the site in my tab I just click the home page here which goes to the base.
Now I can tell that that is the shop page.
Great.
And let's leave it at that.
In this lesson you explored the newcomers custom post-time which is called products and it's associated
You also check out all the custom fields options for each product.
Adding some specific web store type displays like multiple images for a given product and the product
Also nice job customizing the title tag line and menu items in the next video will explore and customize
These are all dynamically generated pages that display different data depending on who's logged in.
site.
In that it creates user accounts in wordpress and allows visitors to maintain a profile a purchase history
and log in credentials.